Git ia an Open Source Distributed Version Control System used to store code. It enanles developers to share their code with others and it is very useful when working on a project that involves a lot of collaborations. It has a remote repository which is stored in a server and a local repository which is stored in the computer of each developer.

Version Control System is a collection of software tools that help a developer to manage changes in a source code. it enables develpers to work on a single project at the same time. It also enables one person to use multiple computers to work on a project. Examples of Version Control System are Git, Mercurial, Subversion etc.

Some popular Git hosting services are: GitHub,GitLab and Bitbucket.

Types of Version Control System are: Local Version Control System, Centralised Version Control System and Distributed Version Control System.

Git is a Version Control System that allows develpoers to manage and track their source code while GitHub is a cloud-based hosting service that allows developers to manage their Git repositories.

A Git repository is a collection of files and folders that represent the history of changes made to our code.

To initialize a repository in Git, these steps must be followed:
git init - to initialize the local repository as a Git repository.
git add - to add files in the local repository .
git commit -m "commit message" - to commit files that have been staged in the local repository.
git remote add origin (copy the remote repository URL)
git push -u origin master - to upload the repository in a GitHub.

Advantages of using Git are as follows:
It is free and there is no need to purchase it.
It can be used without connecting to the central server.
Data stored within the repository is secured.
You can only let others see your work when it is necessary.

Git add - used to add a file into the staging area and to include the changes of a flie into our next commit.
Git branch - used to create, list and delete branches.
Git init - used to initialize a new Git repository or create a new empty one.
Git commit - used to commit staged snapshot to the project history.
Git push - used to upload the locally committed changes to the remote branch.
Git pull - used to download a branch from a remote repository.
Git Checkout - used to switch from one branch to another
Git remote add - used to connect the local repository to the remote server.

The correct syntax to add a message to a commit is Git commit -m "commit message"

The command used to create am empty Git repository is Git init.

The git push command uploads local repository content to a remote repository.